AUTOMATION

preparing the code for deployment, compile|test|minify while using tools or scripts.
building the code by taking from git or smt. being indipendent from IDE gives the power of being able to deploy anywhere anytime.
the machine that the code was built on shouldn't be important
automation is fast, saves time
	consistent, everything happens the same. You can see the differences
	repeatable, repeat it as much as u want, result will be the same
	portable, do it on any computer,server etc.

developer centric process, important to developers.


CI

continuous integration
instead of merging at the end, automatically test and merge small changes in the code to detect problems on a shorter time and smaller base.
No need to worry about conflicts.
You need a CI server to send the change.
CI server automatically notifies the developers.
easier to rollback or detect the bug
pros- 
early detection|sooner the detection easier the fix
eliminate the scramble|no need to merge a big change or code base
frequent releases|it is POSSIBLE
continuous testing
good coding practices

Continuous Delivery and Deployment

1-maintaining the code in a deployable scale|it does not matter if it is going to be deployed
2-constantly deploying small changes
What happens -> builds,testing,acceptence testing
we can rollback before anyone notices
easy to deploy a hotfix
faster time to market
fever deployment process problems
lower risk of sudden big changes
reliable rollbacks-> u know the earlier version was safe
deploy everyday, small steps but every day

IaC -> infrastructure as Code

use automation and code to create and change servers,instances, containers or environments etc.
without iac ssh-manually issue codes | with iac change configs-source control takes them-auto tool enacts the changes
once it works it always works | once u use it u can use it anytime | scalable | infrastructure will be self-documented| simplified complexity of xxx(db,conf,etc.) servers
-ansible-

Conf management

maintaining and changing the state of pieces of infra. in a maintainable way
configuration drift-small changes accumulate over time and the server changes greatly over time as well
u manage the conf files outside of the server
saves time| insightful | maintainable | less conf drift | 

Orchestration

automation that supports processes and workflows

Monitoring

collecting and presenting data about the perf. of the services and servers
memory,cpu,disk io, network, app logs, other resources
use chart,graph doesnt matter.
real time notifications of performance change
post-mortem analysis | something went wrong - find out what is it  
root cause analysis | finding the root cause may fix more problems then u think
also help developers 
automated response-graylog service can do that

Microservices
a software architecture - bunu da bil artık
divide and conquer 
a program is divided into small parts that can work stand alone
instead of going monolith when we divide the program we can find problems easily
The part that causes problems can be fixed without deactivating the other parts
Functional components that builds the application can communicate with each other but since they are seperated it will be easier to keep serving with the other parts of the application while solving the problem on a small part of the app.
We can use a service with a better performanced server while serving the rest on a small server.
this not the best al the time, smaller the app-better the monolith
























